---
template: blog-post
title: Projects and Apps Transforming the Aspirations of Students
slug: /working-with-children
date: 2023-03-30 10:29
description: Getting students to be involved in creating projects and apps
  creates a fortifying environment of learning and curiosity for them
featuredImage: /assets/coding-camps-feature.jpg
---
P﻿articular countries have assisted in establishing events for students to work on projects and apps related to tech. These special events have made students come together to collaborate with one another in order to establish an interest in technology and its innovations. 

P﻿articularly in Southern America, where countries like Argentina and Chile have been hosts for these kinds of events to push the education technology movement into their institutions, where they can learn and interact with the wonders of technology. To start with Argentina first, they're considered the country to have the longest experience of having educational policies linked to technology through different content programs and just in 2018, passed federal regulations to enhance digital education, programming, and robotics. An example of how this regulation influenced tech events would be at a particular high school in Cordoba, Argentina, where a project was in development for a chatbot program designed by students. Chatbot's purpose is to promote and introduce computer science concepts that enhance intellectual and critical thinking skills due to programming the bot to hold conversations between a human and a bot in multiple speaking languages. This project also tested to see engagement between male and female students who wanted to volunteer with collaborating and testing out Chatbot, along with seeing who was interested in learning about computer science. The results were that there were more female students engaged with the testing of Chatbot and wanting to know more about computer science as a topic. 

Though, computer science graduates from Argentinian universities are short in numbers due to the lack of early education about computer science in schools, which hasn't been pushed forward enough nor does it focus on computer science content that makes student practice being technological creators. Plus, the fact that companies hiring computer science graduates are double the amount of actual computer science graduates from these institutions shows where career exploration should be focused a bit more on. With so, the need for the inclusion of computer science classes starting at primary or secondary schools gains confidence for students to have the resources necessary in making decisions about their educational future, following with how to include them in their technological world. 

A﻿lthough, Argentina's Ministry of Education created a technological program called "Aprender Conectados" for 9-13-year-old students that integrates educational and technological innovation and increases digital literacy skills through learning communities. These learning communities can consist of educational forums or websites that provide insight into technology. With this program, it gives an opportunity for the kids to experience networked learning, where they can work with one another on developing their skills through Scratch, web programming, and Python to name a few particular web development topics. The overall aim of these programs that are created or sponsored by the Ministry of Education for each country, like Argentina, is to create a foundation that'll allow teachers to access different manners of teaching for their classes throughout pre-K to higher education.